Reporting Computer Related Problems

Technology Advisory Committee, Department of Mathematical Sciences
J. Maletic, M. Wierdl, A. Negatu, J. Hu, T. Barton, C. Tanner

Changing how you report problems
The amount of computer hardware & software, networks, and supporting infrastructure in Dunn Hall has slowly  
increased in size and complexity over the recent years.  It has become a difficult task for one individual to manage 
the service requests (of over 35 faculty) and the day to day maintenance without a rigorous process.  The University 
now supports a central problem reporting system through      Helpdesk.  All problems related to computer hardware & 
software, networks, and printers must now be reported to this system.

This change is intended to improve response time of dealing with computer problems and service requests.  The 
following are some of the advantages of using this new system:
1. A built-in tracking and problem identification system,
2. Allowing users to check the status of requests and problem reports,
3. Maintaining a central location for the Local Service Provider and assistants to check for problem reports.

Old way to report problems

The current method used by the faculty, staff, and students for reporting problems in Dunn Hall is to describe your 
problem to our Local Service Provider (LSP) Aregahegn Negatu via email, voice mail, phone, or direct 
conversation.  This method has its obvious problems and pitfalls (no record keeping, no tracking, etc.).  A number of 
assistants also support Mr. Negatu for systems administration, and they do not have access to his personal email, 
voice mail, or mind.  Thus, there is no central place for Mr. Negatu or his assistants to check for problem reports.

New way to report problems

All problems can be reported in one of two ways:
   The preferred (and more reliable) method is using the web page:
 http://helpdesk.memphis.edu/ and clicking on: Faculty, Staff, Student Service Requests.
 If you cannot access the Internet then call 8888 and describe your problem to the attendant.

In both cases, your problem report will be given a Service Request Number.  Using the web to report the problem, 
you will be automatically emailed the number.  If you called 8888, make sure the attendant gives this number over 
the phone.  The number is used to track the progress and status of your request/problem.  Go to the same web page: 
http://helpdesk.memphis.edu/ and click on: "check the status of an existing call" and enter the number.

Is your problem taking a long time to get fixed?

If the request is taking a long time to be fixed and the status has already been checked via the web page or 8888, 
then email the LSP (Mr. Negatu) your Service Request Number and a brief explanation.  He will try to address 
your problem as soon as possible.  A priority can be assigned to your service request at reporting time, but the LSP 
must do some daily priority assignments.  

Time Frame

The Technology Advisory Committee has unanimously agreed that this new method will be a more efficient and 
better way of reporting problems.  After November 15th our Local Service Provider (i.e., A. Negatu) will 
**STOP** accepting requests for service via: direct phone call (4943), direct email, personal conversation
